DEVELOPER.md, before:

# Building and Testing TypeORM

This document describes how to set up your development environment and run TypeORM test cases.

* [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
* [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
* [Installing NPM Modules](#installing-npm-modules)
* [Building](#building)
* [Running Tests Locally](#running-tests-locally)

See the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
if you'd like to contribute to TypeORM.

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can build and test TypeORM, you must install and configure the
following products on your development machine:

* [Git](http://git-scm.com) and/or the **GitHub app** (for [Mac](http://mac.github.com) or
  [Windows](http://windows.github.com)); [GitHub's Guide to Installing
  Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source of information.
* [Node.js](http://nodejs.org), (better to install latest version) which is used to run a development web server,
  run tests, and generate distributable files.
  Depending on your system, you can install Node either from source or as a pre-packaged bundle.
* [Mysql](https://www.mysql.com/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/database/index.html) is required to run tests on this platform
* [Microsoft SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloud-platform/sql-server) is required to run tests on this platform
* For MySQL, MariaDB and Postgres you can use [docker](https://www.docker.com/) instead (docker configuration is
 [here](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/docker-compose.yml))

## Getting the Sources

Fork and clone the repository:

1. Login to your GitHub account or create one by following the instructions given [here](https://github.com/signup/free).
2. [Fork](http://help.github.com/forking) the [main TypeORM repository](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm).
3. Clone your fork of the TypeORM repository and define an `upstream` remote pointing back to
   the TypeORM repository that you forked in the first place.

```shell
# Clone your GitHub repository:
git clone git@github.com:<github username>/typeorm.git

# Go to the TypeORM directory:
cd typeorm

# Add the main TyepORM repository as an upstream remote to your repository:
git remote add upstream https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm.git
```
## Installing NPM Modules

Install all TypeORM dependencies by running this command:

```shell
npm install
```

During installation you may have some problems with some dependencies.
For example to proper install oracle driver you need to follow all instructions from
 [node-oracle documentation](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb).

## ORM config

To create an initial `ormconfig.json` file, run the following command:

```shell
cp ormconfig.json.dist ormconfig.json
```

## Building

To build a distribution package of TypeORM run:

```shell
npm run package
```

This command will generate you a distribution package in the `build/package` directory.
You can link (or simply copy/paste) this directory into your project and test TypeORM there
(but make sure to keep all node_modules required by TypeORM).

## Running Tests Locally

It would be greatly appreciated if PRs that change code come with appropriate tests.

To create a test for a specific issue opened on github, create a file: `test/github-issues/<num>/issue-<num>.ts` where
`<num>` is the corresponding github issue. For example, if you were creating a PR to fix github issue #363, you'd
create `test/github-issues/363/issue-363.ts`.

Most tests will benefit from using this template as a starting point:

```ts
import "reflect-metadata";
import { createTestingConnections, closeTestingConnections, reloadTestingDatabases } from "../../utils/test-utils";
import { Connection } from "../../../src/connection/Connection";
import { expect } from "chai";

describe("github issues > #<issue number> <issue title>", () => {

    let connections: Connection[];
    before(async () => connections = await createTestingConnections({
        entities: [__dirname + "/entity/*{.js,.ts}"],
        schemaCreate: true,
        dropSchema: true,
    }));
    beforeEach(() => reloadTestingDatabases(connections));
    after(() => closeTestingConnections(connections));

    it("should <put a detailed description of what it should do here>", () => Promise.all(connections.map(async connection => {

       // tests go here

    })));

    // you can add additional tests if needed

});
```

If you place entities in `./entity/<entity-name>.ts` relative to your `issue-<num>.ts` file,
they will automatically be loaded.

To run the tests, setup your environment configuration by copying `ormconfig.json.dist` into `ormconfig.json` and
replacing parameters with your own.

Then run tests:

```shell
npm test
```

You should execute test suites before submitting a PR to github.
All the tests are executed on our Continuous Integration infrastructure and a PR could only be merged once the tests pass.

**Executing only some tests**: When you are creating tests to some specific code, you may want only execute the tests that you're creating, so you waste less time to verify your code. To do this, you can temporarily modify your tests definitions adding `.only` *mocha* commands **(describe, it)**. Example:

```
describe.only('your describe test', ....)
```

>**Hint:** you can use the `--grep` flag to pass a Regex to `gulp-mocha`. Only the tests have have `describe`/`it`
>statements that match the Regex will be run. For example:
>
>```shell
>npm test -- --grep="github issues > #363"
>```
>
>This is useful when trying to get a specific test or subset of tests to pass.

### Faster developer cycle for editing code and running tests

The `npm test` script works by deleting built TypeScript code, rebuilding the codebase, and then running tests. This can take a long time.

Instead, for a quicker feedback cycle, you can run `npm run compile -- --watch` to make a fresh build and instruct TypeScript to watch for changes and only compile what code you've changed.

Once TypeScript finishes compiling your changes, you can run `npm run test-fast` (instead of `test`), to trigger a test without causing a full recompile, which allows you to edit and check your changes much faster.

## Using Docker

To run your tests you need dbms installed on your machine. Alternatively, you can use docker
with all dbms images inside it. To use dbms for your tests from docker simply run `docker-compose up`
in the root of the project. Once all images are fetched and run you can run tests.

- The docker image of mssql-server needs at least 3.25GB of RAM.
- Make sure to assign enough memory to the Docker VM if you're running on Docker for Mac or Windows

### Oracle XE

In order to run tests on Oracle XE locally, we need to start 2 docker containers:

- a container with Oracle XE database
- a container with typeorm and its tests

#### 1. Booting Oracle XE database

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose up -d oracle
```

It will start an oracle instance only.
The instance will be run in background,
therefore, we need to stop it later on.

#### 2. Booting typeorm for Oracle

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose.oracle.yml up
```

it will start a nodejs instance which builds typeorm and executes unit tests.
The instance exits after the run.

#### 3. Shutting down Oracle XE database

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose down
```

Commit message:

docs: document npm run pack (#8349)

DEVELOPER.md, after:

# Building and Testing TypeORM

This document describes how to set up your development environment and run TypeORM test cases.

* [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
* [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
* [Installing NPM Modules](#installing-npm-modules)
* [Building](#building)
* [Running Tests Locally](#running-tests-locally)

See the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
if you'd like to contribute to TypeORM.

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can build and test TypeORM, you must install and configure the
following products on your development machine:

* [Git](http://git-scm.com) and/or the **GitHub app** (for [Mac](http://mac.github.com) or
  [Windows](http://windows.github.com)); [GitHub's Guide to Installing
  Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source of information.
* [Node.js](http://nodejs.org), (better to install latest version) which is used to run a development web server,
  run tests, and generate distributable files.
  Depending on your system, you can install Node either from source or as a pre-packaged bundle.
* [Mysql](https://www.mysql.com/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) is required to run tests on this platform (or docker)
* [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/database/index.html) is required to run tests on this platform
* [Microsoft SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloud-platform/sql-server) is required to run tests on this platform
* For MySQL, MariaDB and Postgres you can use [docker](https://www.docker.com/) instead (docker configuration is
 [here](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/docker-compose.yml))

## Getting the Sources

Fork and clone the repository:

1. Login to your GitHub account or create one by following the instructions given [here](https://github.com/signup/free).
2. [Fork](http://help.github.com/forking) the [main TypeORM repository](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm).
3. Clone your fork of the TypeORM repository and define an `upstream` remote pointing back to
   the TypeORM repository that you forked in the first place.

```shell
# Clone your GitHub repository:
git clone git@github.com:<github username>/typeorm.git

# Go to the TypeORM directory:
cd typeorm

# Add the main TyepORM repository as an upstream remote to your repository:
git remote add upstream https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm.git
```
## Installing NPM Modules

Install all TypeORM dependencies by running this command:

```shell
npm install
```

During installation you may have some problems with some dependencies.
For example to proper install oracle driver you need to follow all instructions from
 [node-oracle documentation](https://github.com/oracle/node-oracledb).

## ORM config

To create an initial `ormconfig.json` file, run the following command:

```shell
cp ormconfig.json.dist ormconfig.json
```

## Building

To build a distribution package of TypeORM run:

```shell
npm run package
```

This command will generate you a distribution package in the `build/package` directory.
You can link (or simply copy/paste) this directory into your project and test TypeORM there
(but make sure to keep all node_modules required by TypeORM).

To build the distribution package of TypeORM packed into a `.tgz`, run:

```shell
npm run pack
```

This command will generate you a distribution package tar in the `build` directory (`build/typeorm-x.x.x.tgz`).
You can copy this tar into your project and run `npm install ./typeorm-x.x.x.tgz` to bundle your build of TypeORM in your project.

## Running Tests Locally

It would be greatly appreciated if PRs that change code come with appropriate tests.

To create a test for a specific issue opened on github, create a file: `test/github-issues/<num>/issue-<num>.ts` where
`<num>` is the corresponding github issue. For example, if you were creating a PR to fix github issue #363, you'd
create `test/github-issues/363/issue-363.ts`.

Most tests will benefit from using this template as a starting point:

```ts
import "reflect-metadata";
import { createTestingConnections, closeTestingConnections, reloadTestingDatabases } from "../../utils/test-utils";
import { Connection } from "../../../src/connection/Connection";
import { expect } from "chai";

describe("github issues > #<issue number> <issue title>", () => {

    let connections: Connection[];
    before(async () => connections = await createTestingConnections({
        entities: [__dirname + "/entity/*{.js,.ts}"],
        schemaCreate: true,
        dropSchema: true,
    }));
    beforeEach(() => reloadTestingDatabases(connections));
    after(() => closeTestingConnections(connections));

    it("should <put a detailed description of what it should do here>", () => Promise.all(connections.map(async connection => {

       // tests go here

    })));

    // you can add additional tests if needed

});
```

If you place entities in `./entity/<entity-name>.ts` relative to your `issue-<num>.ts` file,
they will automatically be loaded.

To run the tests, setup your environment configuration by copying `ormconfig.json.dist` into `ormconfig.json` and
replacing parameters with your own.

Then run tests:

```shell
npm test
```

You should execute test suites before submitting a PR to github.
All the tests are executed on our Continuous Integration infrastructure and a PR could only be merged once the tests pass.

**Executing only some tests**: When you are creating tests to some specific code, you may want only execute the tests that you're creating, so you waste less time to verify your code. To do this, you can temporarily modify your tests definitions adding `.only` *mocha* commands **(describe, it)**. Example:

```
describe.only('your describe test', ....)
```

>**Hint:** you can use the `--grep` flag to pass a Regex to `gulp-mocha`. Only the tests have have `describe`/`it`
>statements that match the Regex will be run. For example:
>
>```shell
>npm test -- --grep="github issues > #363"
>```
>
>This is useful when trying to get a specific test or subset of tests to pass.

### Faster developer cycle for editing code and running tests

The `npm test` script works by deleting built TypeScript code, rebuilding the codebase, and then running tests. This can take a long time.

Instead, for a quicker feedback cycle, you can run `npm run compile -- --watch` to make a fresh build and instruct TypeScript to watch for changes and only compile what code you've changed.

Once TypeScript finishes compiling your changes, you can run `npm run test-fast` (instead of `test`), to trigger a test without causing a full recompile, which allows you to edit and check your changes much faster.

## Using Docker

To run your tests you need dbms installed on your machine. Alternatively, you can use docker
with all dbms images inside it. To use dbms for your tests from docker simply run `docker-compose up`
in the root of the project. Once all images are fetched and run you can run tests.

- The docker image of mssql-server needs at least 3.25GB of RAM.
- Make sure to assign enough memory to the Docker VM if you're running on Docker for Mac or Windows

### Oracle XE

In order to run tests on Oracle XE locally, we need to start 2 docker containers:

- a container with Oracle XE database
- a container with typeorm and its tests

#### 1. Booting Oracle XE database

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose up -d oracle
```

It will start an oracle instance only.
The instance will be run in background,
therefore, we need to stop it later on.

#### 2. Booting typeorm for Oracle

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose.oracle.yml up
```

it will start a nodejs instance which builds typeorm and executes unit tests.
The instance exits after the run.

#### 3. Shutting down Oracle XE database

Execute in shell the next command:

```shell
docker-compose down
```
