.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-request.md, before:

---
name: 🌈 Feature request
about: Suggest an amazing new idea for this project
title: ''
labels: new feature, requires triage
assignees: ''

---

<!--
  Please follow the template.  If you don't, your issue may be closed.

  Have a question?  This is the TypeORM issue tracker - and not the right place
  for general support or questions.  Instead, check the "Support" Documentation
  on the best places to ask questions!

  https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/docs/support.md
-->

## Feature Description

### The Problem

<!--
  A clear and concise description of what the problem is, and
  why it needs to be implemented as a new feature for TypeORM.

  For example, "I'm always frustrated when ..."

  Why should this be a part of TypeORM?
-->


### The Solution

<!--
  A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

  How can the requested feature be used to approach the problem it's supposed to solve?
-->


### Considered Alternatives

<!--
  A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions
  or features you've considered.

  If any workaround exists to the best of your knowledge, include it here.
-->


### Additional Context

<!--
  Add any other context about the feature request here.
-->


### Relevant Database Driver(s)

<!--
  Please include the relevant database drivers to your feature, if any.
-->

- [ ] `aurora-data-api`
- [ ] `aurora-data-api-pg`
- [ ] `better-sqlite3`
- [ ] `cockroachdb`
- [ ] `cordova`
- [ ] `expo`
- [ ] `mongodb`
- [ ] `mysql`
- [ ] `nativescript`
- [ ] `oracle`
- [ ] `postgres`
- [ ] `react-native`
- [ ] `sap`
- [ ] `sqlite`
- [ ] `sqlite-abstract`
- [ ] `sqljs`
- [ ] `sqlserver`


### Are you willing to resolve this issue by submitting a Pull Request?

<!--
  Remember that first-time contributors are welcome! 🙌
-->

- [ ] Yes, I have the time, and I know how to start.
- [ ] Yes, I have the time, but I don't know how to start. I would need guidance.
- [ ] No, I don't have the time, although I believe I could do it if I had the time...
- [ ] No, I don't have the time and I wouldn't even know how to start.


<!--
  👋 Have a great day and thank you for the feature request!
-->

Commit message:

new bug report template (#7945)
* example of the new bug report template

* changed emoji icons

* updated emoji icons

* added emoji codes to the comments

* Update bug-report.md

* Update documentation-issue.md

* Update feature-request.md

* Create feature-request.md

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-request.md, after:

---
name: 🌈 Feature request
about: Suggest an amazing new idea for this project
title: ''
labels: new feature, requires triage
assignees: ''

---

<!--
  Please follow the template.  If you don't, your issue may be closed.

  Have a question?  This is the TypeORM issue tracker - and not the right place
  for general support or questions.  Instead, check the "Support" Documentation
  on the best places to ask questions!

  https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm/blob/master/docs/support.md
-->

## Feature Description

### The Problem

<!--
  A clear and concise description of what the problem is, and
  why it needs to be implemented as a new feature for TypeORM.

  For example, "I'm always frustrated when ..."

  Why should this be a part of TypeORM?
-->


### The Solution

<!--
  A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

  How can the requested feature be used to approach the problem it's supposed to solve?
-->


### Considered Alternatives

<!--
  A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions
  or features you've considered.

  If any workaround exists to the best of your knowledge, include it here.
-->


### Additional Context

<!--
  Add any other context about the feature request here.
-->


### Relevant Database Driver(s)

<!-- Put "yes" instead of "no" to your issue's relevant databases -->

| DB Type              | Relevant      |
| ---                  | ---           |
| `aurora-data-api`    | no            |
| `aurora-data-api-pg` | no            |
| `better-sqlite3`     | no            |
| `cockroachdb`        | no            |
| `cordova`            | no            |
| `expo`               | no            |
| `mongodb`            | no            |
| `mysql`              | no            |
| `nativescript`       | no            |
| `oracle`             | no            |
| `postgres`           | no            |
| `react-native`       | no            |
| `sap`                | no            |
| `sqlite`             | no            |
| `sqlite-abstract`    | no            |
| `sqljs`              | no            |
| `sqlserver`          | no            |


### Are you willing to resolve this issue by submitting a Pull Request?

<!-- Put "✅" (:white_check_mark:) to one of these options, left "✖️" (:heavy_multiplication_x:) others: -->

 - ✅ Yes, I have the time, and I know how to start.
 - ✖️ Yes, I have the time, but I don't know how to start. I would need guidance.
 - ✖️ No, I don’t have the time, but I can support (using donations) development.
 - ✖️ No, I don’t have the time and I’m okay to wait for the community / maintainers to resolve this issue.


<!--
  Remember that first-time contributors are welcome! 🙌
  👋 Have a great day and thank you for the feature request!
-->
