docs/find-options.md, before:

# Find Options

* [Basic options](#basic-options)
* [Advanced options](#advanced-options)

## Basic options

All repository and manager `find` methods accept special options you can use to query data you need without using `QueryBuilder`:

* `select` - indicates which properties of the main object must be selected

```typescript
userRepository.find({ select: ["firstName", "lastName"] });
```

* `relations` - relations needs to be loaded with the main entity. Sub-relations can also be loaded (shorthand for join and leftJoinAndSelect)

```typescript
userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos"] });
userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos", "videos.video_attributes"] });
```

* `join` - joins needs to be performed for the entity. Extended version of "relations".

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    join: {
        alias: "user",
        leftJoinAndSelect: {
            profile: "user.profile",
            photo: "user.photos",
            video: "user.videos"
        }
    }
});
```

* `where` - simple conditions by which entity should be queried.

```typescript
userRepository.find({ where: { firstName: "Timber", lastName: "Saw" } });
```
Querying a column from an embedded entity should be done with respect to the hierarchy in which it was defined. Example:

```typescript
userRepository.find({ where: { name: { first: "Timber", last: "Saw" } } });
```

Querying with OR operator:

```typescript
userRepository.find({
  where: [
    { firstName: "Timber", lastName: "Saw" },
    { firstName: "Stan", lastName: "Lee" }
  ]
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "user" WHERE ("firstName" = 'Timber' AND "lastName" = 'Saw') OR ("firstName" = 'Stan' AND "lastName" = 'Lee')
```

* `order` - selection order.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    order: {
        name: "ASC",
        id: "DESC"
    }
});
```

* `withDeleted` - include entities which have been soft deleted with `softDelete` or `softRemove`, e.g. have their `@DeleteDateColumn` column set. By default, soft deleted entities are not included.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    withDeleted: true
});
```

`find` methods which return multiple entities (`find`, `findAndCount`, `findByIds`) also accept following options:

* `skip` - offset (paginated) from where entities should be taken.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    skip: 5
});
```

* `take` - limit (paginated) - max number of entities that should be taken.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    take: 10
});
```

** If you are using typeorm with MSSQL, and want to use `take` or `limit`, you need to use order as well or you will receive the following error:   `'Invalid usage of the option NEXT in the FETCH statement.'`

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    order: {
        columnName: 'ASC'
        },
    skip: 0,
    take: 10
})
```



* `cache` - Enables or disables query result caching. See [caching](caching.md) for more information and options.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    cache: true
})
```

* `lock` - Enables locking mechanism for query. Can be used only in `findOne` method. `lock` is an object which can be defined as:
```ts
{ mode: "optimistic", version: number|Date }
```
or
```ts
{ mode: "pessimistic_read"|"pessimistic_write"|"dirty_read"|"pessimistic_partial_write"|"pessimistic_write_or_fail" }
```

for example:

```typescript
userRepository.findOne(1, {
    lock: { mode: "optimistic", version: 1 }
})
```

`pessimistic_partial_write` and `pessimistic_write_or_fail` are supported only on Postgres and are equivalents of `SELECT .. FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED` and `SELECT .. FOR UPDATE NOWAIT`, accordingly.

Complete example of find options:

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    select: ["firstName", "lastName"],
    relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos"],
    where: {
        firstName: "Timber",
        lastName: "Saw"
    },
    order: {
        name: "ASC",
        id: "DESC"
    },
    skip: 5,
    take: 10,
    cache: true
});
```


## Advanced options

TypeORM provides a lot of built-in operators that can be used to create more complex comparisons:

* `Not`

```ts
import {Not} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Not("About #1")
})
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" != 'About #1'
```

* `LessThan`

```ts
import {LessThan} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: LessThan(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" < 10
```

* `LessThanOrEqual`

```ts
import {LessThanOrEqual} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: LessThanOrEqual(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" <= 10
```

* `MoreThan`

```ts
import {MoreThan} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: MoreThan(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" > 10
```

* `MoreThanOrEqual`

```ts
import {MoreThanOrEqual} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: MoreThanOrEqual(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" >= 10
```

* `Equal`

```ts
import {Equal} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Equal("About #2")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" = 'About #2'
```

* `Like`

```ts
import {Like} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Like("%out #%")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" LIKE '%out #%'
```

* `ILike`

```ts
import {ILike} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: ILike("%out #%")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" ILIKE '%out #%'
```

* `Between`

```ts
import {Between} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Between(1, 10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" BETWEEN 1 AND 10
```

* `In`

```ts
import {In} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: In(["About #2", "About #3"])
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" IN ('About #2','About #3')
```

* `Any`

```ts
import {Any} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Any(["About #2", "About #3"])
});
```

will execute following query (Postgres notation):

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" = ANY(['About #2','About #3'])
```

* `IsNull`

```ts
import {IsNull} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: IsNull()
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" IS NULL
```

* `Raw`

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Raw("dislikes - 4")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" = "dislikes" - 4
```

In the simplest case, a raw query is inserted immediately after the equal symbol.
 But you can also completely rewrite the comparison logic using the function.

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    currentDate: Raw(alias =>`${alias} > NOW()`)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "currentDate" > NOW()
```

If you need to provide user input, you should not include the user input directly in your query as this may create a SQL injection vulnerability.  Instead, you can use the second argument of the `Raw` function to provide a list of parameters to bind to the query.

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    currentDate: Raw(alias =>`${alias} > ':date'`, { date: "2020-10-06" })
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "currentDate" > '2020-10-06'
```

If you need to provide user input that is an array, you can bind them as a list of values in the SQL statement by using the special expression syntax:

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Raw(alias =>`${alias} IN (:...titles)`, { titles: ["Go To Statement Considered Harmful", "Structured Programming"] })
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "titles" IN ('Go To Statement Considered Harmful', 'Structured Programming')
```

## Combining Advanced Options

Also you can combine these operators with `Not` operator:

```ts
import {Not, MoreThan, Equal} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Not(MoreThan(10)),
    title: Not(Equal("About #2"))
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE NOT("likes" > 10) AND NOT("title" = 'About #2')
```

Commit message:

docs: update lock modes in find-options.md (#7518)

docs/find-options.md, after:

# Find Options

* [Basic options](#basic-options)
* [Advanced options](#advanced-options)

## Basic options

All repository and manager `find` methods accept special options you can use to query data you need without using `QueryBuilder`:

* `select` - indicates which properties of the main object must be selected

```typescript
userRepository.find({ select: ["firstName", "lastName"] });
```

* `relations` - relations needs to be loaded with the main entity. Sub-relations can also be loaded (shorthand for join and leftJoinAndSelect)

```typescript
userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos"] });
userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos", "videos.video_attributes"] });
```

* `join` - joins needs to be performed for the entity. Extended version of "relations".

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    join: {
        alias: "user",
        leftJoinAndSelect: {
            profile: "user.profile",
            photo: "user.photos",
            video: "user.videos"
        }
    }
});
```

* `where` - simple conditions by which entity should be queried.

```typescript
userRepository.find({ where: { firstName: "Timber", lastName: "Saw" } });
```
Querying a column from an embedded entity should be done with respect to the hierarchy in which it was defined. Example:

```typescript
userRepository.find({ where: { name: { first: "Timber", last: "Saw" } } });
```

Querying with OR operator:

```typescript
userRepository.find({
  where: [
    { firstName: "Timber", lastName: "Saw" },
    { firstName: "Stan", lastName: "Lee" }
  ]
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "user" WHERE ("firstName" = 'Timber' AND "lastName" = 'Saw') OR ("firstName" = 'Stan' AND "lastName" = 'Lee')
```

* `order` - selection order.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    order: {
        name: "ASC",
        id: "DESC"
    }
});
```

* `withDeleted` - include entities which have been soft deleted with `softDelete` or `softRemove`, e.g. have their `@DeleteDateColumn` column set. By default, soft deleted entities are not included.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    withDeleted: true
});
```

`find` methods which return multiple entities (`find`, `findAndCount`, `findByIds`) also accept following options:

* `skip` - offset (paginated) from where entities should be taken.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    skip: 5
});
```

* `take` - limit (paginated) - max number of entities that should be taken.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    take: 10
});
```

** If you are using typeorm with MSSQL, and want to use `take` or `limit`, you need to use order as well or you will receive the following error:   `'Invalid usage of the option NEXT in the FETCH statement.'`

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    order: {
        columnName: 'ASC'
        },
    skip: 0,
    take: 10
})
```



* `cache` - Enables or disables query result caching. See [caching](caching.md) for more information and options.

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    cache: true
})
```

* `lock` - Enables locking mechanism for query. Can be used only in `findOne` method. `lock` is an object which can be defined as:
```ts
{ mode: "optimistic", version: number|Date }
```
or
```ts
{ mode: "pessimistic_read"|"pessimistic_write"|"dirty_read"|"pessimistic_partial_write"|"pessimistic_write_or_fail"|"for_no_key_update" }
```

for example:

```typescript
userRepository.findOne(1, {
    lock: { mode: "optimistic", version: 1 }
})
```

Support of lock modes, and SQL statements they translate to, are listed in the table below (blank cell denotes unsupported). When specified lock mode is not supported, a `LockNotSupportedOnGivenDriverError` error will be thrown.

```text
|                 | pessimistic_read         | pessimistic_write       | dirty_read    | pessimistic_partial_write   | pessimistic_write_or_fail   | for_no_key_update   |
| --------------- | --------------------     | ----------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------- |
| MySQL           | LOCK IN SHARE MODE       | FOR UPDATE              | (nothing)     | FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED      | FOR UPDATE NOWAIT           |                     |
| Postgres        | FOR SHARE                | FOR UPDATE              | (nothing)     | FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED      | FOR UPDATE NOWAIT           | FOR NO KEY UPDATE   |
| Oracle          | FOR UPDATE               | FOR UPDATE              | (nothing)     |                             |                             |                     |
| SQL Server      | WITH (HOLDLOCK, ROWLOCK) | WITH (UPDLOCK, ROWLOCK) | WITH (NOLOCK) |                             |                             |                     |
| AuroraDataApi   | LOCK IN SHARE MODE       | FOR UPDATE              | (nothing)     |                             |                             |                     |

```

Complete example of find options:

```typescript
userRepository.find({
    select: ["firstName", "lastName"],
    relations: ["profile", "photos", "videos"],
    where: {
        firstName: "Timber",
        lastName: "Saw"
    },
    order: {
        name: "ASC",
        id: "DESC"
    },
    skip: 5,
    take: 10,
    cache: true
});
```


## Advanced options

TypeORM provides a lot of built-in operators that can be used to create more complex comparisons:

* `Not`

```ts
import {Not} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Not("About #1")
})
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" != 'About #1'
```

* `LessThan`

```ts
import {LessThan} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: LessThan(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" < 10
```

* `LessThanOrEqual`

```ts
import {LessThanOrEqual} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: LessThanOrEqual(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" <= 10
```

* `MoreThan`

```ts
import {MoreThan} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: MoreThan(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" > 10
```

* `MoreThanOrEqual`

```ts
import {MoreThanOrEqual} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: MoreThanOrEqual(10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" >= 10
```

* `Equal`

```ts
import {Equal} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Equal("About #2")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" = 'About #2'
```

* `Like`

```ts
import {Like} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Like("%out #%")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" LIKE '%out #%'
```

* `ILike`

```ts
import {ILike} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: ILike("%out #%")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" ILIKE '%out #%'
```

* `Between`

```ts
import {Between} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Between(1, 10)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" BETWEEN 1 AND 10
```

* `In`

```ts
import {In} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: In(["About #2", "About #3"])
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" IN ('About #2','About #3')
```

* `Any`

```ts
import {Any} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Any(["About #2", "About #3"])
});
```

will execute following query (Postgres notation):

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" = ANY(['About #2','About #3'])
```

* `IsNull`

```ts
import {IsNull} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: IsNull()
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "title" IS NULL
```

* `Raw`

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Raw("dislikes - 4")
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "likes" = "dislikes" - 4
```

In the simplest case, a raw query is inserted immediately after the equal symbol.
 But you can also completely rewrite the comparison logic using the function.

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    currentDate: Raw(alias =>`${alias} > NOW()`)
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "currentDate" > NOW()
```

If you need to provide user input, you should not include the user input directly in your query as this may create a SQL injection vulnerability.  Instead, you can use the second argument of the `Raw` function to provide a list of parameters to bind to the query.

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    currentDate: Raw(alias =>`${alias} > ':date'`, { date: "2020-10-06" })
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "currentDate" > '2020-10-06'
```

If you need to provide user input that is an array, you can bind them as a list of values in the SQL statement by using the special expression syntax:

```ts
import {Raw} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    title: Raw(alias =>`${alias} IN (:...titles)`, { titles: ["Go To Statement Considered Harmful", "Structured Programming"] })
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE "titles" IN ('Go To Statement Considered Harmful', 'Structured Programming')
```

## Combining Advanced Options

Also you can combine these operators with `Not` operator:

```ts
import {Not, MoreThan, Equal} from "typeorm";

const loadedPosts = await connection.getRepository(Post).find({
    likes: Not(MoreThan(10)),
    title: Not(Equal("About #2"))
});
```

will execute following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM "post" WHERE NOT("likes" > 10) AND NOT("title" = 'About #2')
```
