docs/many-to-one-one-to-many-relations.md, before:

# Many-to-one / one-to-many relations

Many-to-one / one-to-many is a relation where A contains multiple instances of B, but B contains only one instance of A.
Let's take for example `User` and `Photo` entities.
User can have multiple photos, but each photo is owned by only one single user.

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, ManyToOne} from "typeorm";
import {User} from "./User";

@Entity()
export class Photo {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    url: string;
    
    @ManyToOne(() => User, user => user.photos)
    user: User;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToMany} from "typeorm";
import {Photo} from "./Photo";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToMany(() => Photo, photo => photo.user)
    photos: Photo[];
    
}
```

Here we added `@OneToMany` to the `photos` property and specified the target relation type to be `Photo`.
You can omit `@JoinColumn` in a `@ManyToOne` / `@OneToMany` relation.
`@OneToMany` cannot exist without `@ManyToOne`.
If you want to use `@OneToMany`, `@ManyToOne` is required. However, the inverse is not required: If you only care about the `@ManyToOne` relationship, you can define it without having `@OneToMany` on the related entity.
Where you set `@ManyToOne` - its related entity will have "relation id" and foreign key.

This example will produce following tables:

```shell
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                         photo                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| url         | varchar(255) |                            |
| userId      | int(11)      | FOREIGN KEY                |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+

+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                          user                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| name        | varchar(255) |                            |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
```

Example how to save such relation:

```typescript
const photo1 = new Photo();
photo1.url = "me.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(photo1);

const photo2 = new Photo();
photo2.url = "me-and-bears.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(photo2);

const user = new User();
user.name = "John";
user.photos = [photo1, photo2];
await connection.manager.save(user);
```

or alternatively you can do:

```typescript
const user = new User();
user.name = "Leo";
await connection.manager.save(user);

const photo1 = new Photo();
photo1.url = "me.jpg";
photo1.user = user;
await connection.manager.save(photo1);

const photo2 = new Photo();
photo2.url = "me-and-bears.jpg";
photo2.user = user;
await connection.manager.save(photo2);
```

With [cascades](./relations.md#cascades) enabled you can save this relation with only one `save` call.

To load a user with photos inside you must specify the relation in `FindOptions`:
 
```typescript
const userRepository = connection.getRepository(User);
const users = await userRepository.find({ relations: ["photos"] });

// or from inverse side

const photoRepository = connection.getRepository(Photo);
const photos = await photoRepository.find({ relations: ["user"] });
```

Or using `QueryBuilder` you can join them:

```typescript
const users = await connection
    .getRepository(User)
    .createQueryBuilder("user")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("user.photos", "photo")
    .getMany();

// or from inverse side

const photos = await connection
    .getRepository(Photo)
    .createQueryBuilder("photo")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("photo.user", "user")
    .getMany();
```

With eager loading enabled on a relation you don't have to specify relation or join it - it will ALWAYS be loaded automatically.

Commit message:

docs: fix eager loading in relations (#8145)

docs/many-to-one-one-to-many-relations.md, after:

# Many-to-one / one-to-many relations

Many-to-one / one-to-many is a relation where A contains multiple instances of B, but B contains only one instance of A.
Let's take for example `User` and `Photo` entities.
User can have multiple photos, but each photo is owned by only one single user.

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, ManyToOne} from "typeorm";
import {User} from "./User";

@Entity()
export class Photo {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    url: string;
    
    @ManyToOne(() => User, user => user.photos)
    user: User;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToMany} from "typeorm";
import {Photo} from "./Photo";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToMany(() => Photo, photo => photo.user)
    photos: Photo[];
    
}
```

Here we added `@OneToMany` to the `photos` property and specified the target relation type to be `Photo`.
You can omit `@JoinColumn` in a `@ManyToOne` / `@OneToMany` relation.
`@OneToMany` cannot exist without `@ManyToOne`.
If you want to use `@OneToMany`, `@ManyToOne` is required. However, the inverse is not required: If you only care about the `@ManyToOne` relationship, you can define it without having `@OneToMany` on the related entity.
Where you set `@ManyToOne` - its related entity will have "relation id" and foreign key.

This example will produce following tables:

```shell
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                         photo                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| url         | varchar(255) |                            |
| userId      | int(11)      | FOREIGN KEY                |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+

+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                          user                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| name        | varchar(255) |                            |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
```

Example how to save such relation:

```typescript
const photo1 = new Photo();
photo1.url = "me.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(photo1);

const photo2 = new Photo();
photo2.url = "me-and-bears.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(photo2);

const user = new User();
user.name = "John";
user.photos = [photo1, photo2];
await connection.manager.save(user);
```

or alternatively you can do:

```typescript
const user = new User();
user.name = "Leo";
await connection.manager.save(user);

const photo1 = new Photo();
photo1.url = "me.jpg";
photo1.user = user;
await connection.manager.save(photo1);

const photo2 = new Photo();
photo2.url = "me-and-bears.jpg";
photo2.user = user;
await connection.manager.save(photo2);
```

With [cascades](./relations.md#cascades) enabled you can save this relation with only one `save` call.

To load a user with photos inside you must specify the relation in `FindOptions`:
 
```typescript
const userRepository = connection.getRepository(User);
const users = await userRepository.find({ relations: ["photos"] });

// or from inverse side

const photoRepository = connection.getRepository(Photo);
const photos = await photoRepository.find({ relations: ["user"] });
```

Or using `QueryBuilder` you can join them:

```typescript
const users = await connection
    .getRepository(User)
    .createQueryBuilder("user")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("user.photos", "photo")
    .getMany();

// or from inverse side

const photos = await connection
    .getRepository(Photo)
    .createQueryBuilder("photo")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("photo.user", "user")
    .getMany();
```

With eager loading enabled on a relation, you don't have to specify relations in the find command as it will ALWAYS be loaded automatically. If you use QueryBuilder eager relations are disabled, you have to use leftJoinAndSelect to load the relation.
