docs/one-to-one-relations.md, before:

# One-to-one relations

One-to-one is a relation where A contains only one instance of B, and B contains only one instance of A.
Let's take for example `User` and `Profile` entities.
User can have only a single profile, and a single profile is owned by only a single user.

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column} from "typeorm";

@Entity()
export class Profile {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    gender: string;
    
    @Column()
    photo: string;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne, JoinColumn} from "typeorm";
import {Profile} from "./Profile";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => Profile)
    @JoinColumn()
    profile: Profile;
    
}
```

Here we added `@OneToOne` to the `profile` and specify the target relation type to be `Profile`.
We also added `@JoinColumn` which is required and must be set only on one side of the relation.
The side you set `@JoinColumn` on, that side's table will contain a "relation id" and foreign keys to target entity table.

This example will produce following tables:

```shell
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                        profile                          |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| gender      | varchar(255) |                            |
| photo       | varchar(255) |                            |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+

+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                          user                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| name        | varchar(255) |                            |
| profileId   | int(11)      | FOREIGN KEY                |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
```

Again, `@JoinColumn` must be set only on one side of relation - the side that must have the foreign key in the database table.

Example how to save such a relation:

```typescript
const profile = new Profile();
profile.gender = "male";
profile.photo = "me.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(profile);

const user = new User();
user.name = 'Joe Smith';
user.profile = profile;
await connection.manager.save(user);
```

With [cascades](./relations.md#cascades) enabled you can save this relation with only one `save` call.

To load user with profile inside you must specify relation in `FindOptions`:
 
```typescript
const userRepository = connection.getRepository(User);
const users = await userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile"] });
```

Or using `QueryBuilder` you can join them:

```typescript
const users = await connection
    .getRepository(User)
    .createQueryBuilder("user")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("user.profile", "profile")
    .getMany();
```

With eager loading enabled on a relation you don't have to specify relation or join it - it will ALWAYS be loaded automatically.

Relations can be uni-directional and bi-directional. 
Uni-directional are relations with a relation decorator only on one side.
Bi-directional are relations with decorators on both sides of a relation.

We just created a uni-directional relation. Let's make it bi-directional:

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne} from "typeorm";
import {User} from "./User";

@Entity()
export class Profile {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    gender: string;
    
    @Column()
    photo: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => User, user => user.profile) // specify inverse side as a second parameter
    user: User;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne, JoinColumn} from "typeorm";
import {Profile} from "./Profile";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => Profile, profile => profile.user) // specify inverse side as a second parameter
    @JoinColumn()
    profile: Profile;
    
}
```

We just made our relation bi-directional. Note, inverse relation does not have a `@JoinColumn`.
`@JoinColumn` must only be on one side of the relation -  on the table that will own the foreign key.

Bi-directional relations allow you to join relations from both sides using `QueryBuilder`: 

```typescript
const profiles = await connection
    .getRepository(Profile)
    .createQueryBuilder("profile")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("profile.user", "user")
    .getMany();
```

Commit message:

docs: fix eager loading in relations (#8145)

docs/one-to-one-relations.md, after:

# One-to-one relations

One-to-one is a relation where A contains only one instance of B, and B contains only one instance of A.
Let's take for example `User` and `Profile` entities.
User can have only a single profile, and a single profile is owned by only a single user.

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column} from "typeorm";

@Entity()
export class Profile {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    gender: string;
    
    @Column()
    photo: string;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne, JoinColumn} from "typeorm";
import {Profile} from "./Profile";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => Profile)
    @JoinColumn()
    profile: Profile;
    
}
```

Here we added `@OneToOne` to the `profile` and specify the target relation type to be `Profile`.
We also added `@JoinColumn` which is required and must be set only on one side of the relation.
The side you set `@JoinColumn` on, that side's table will contain a "relation id" and foreign keys to target entity table.

This example will produce following tables:

```shell
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                        profile                          |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| gender      | varchar(255) |                            |
| photo       | varchar(255) |                            |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+

+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
|                          user                           |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
| id          | int(11)      | PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT |
| name        | varchar(255) |                            |
| profileId   | int(11)      | FOREIGN KEY                |
+-------------+--------------+----------------------------+
```

Again, `@JoinColumn` must be set only on one side of relation - the side that must have the foreign key in the database table.

Example how to save such a relation:

```typescript
const profile = new Profile();
profile.gender = "male";
profile.photo = "me.jpg";
await connection.manager.save(profile);

const user = new User();
user.name = 'Joe Smith';
user.profile = profile;
await connection.manager.save(user);
```

With [cascades](./relations.md#cascades) enabled you can save this relation with only one `save` call.

To load user with profile inside you must specify relation in `FindOptions`:
 
```typescript
const userRepository = connection.getRepository(User);
const users = await userRepository.find({ relations: ["profile"] });
```

Or using `QueryBuilder` you can join them:

```typescript
const users = await connection
    .getRepository(User)
    .createQueryBuilder("user")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("user.profile", "profile")
    .getMany();
```

With eager loading enabled on a relation, you don't have to specify relations in the find command as it will ALWAYS be loaded automatically. If you use QueryBuilder eager relations are disabled, you have to use leftJoinAndSelect to load the relation.

Relations can be uni-directional and bi-directional. 
Uni-directional are relations with a relation decorator only on one side.
Bi-directional are relations with decorators on both sides of a relation.

We just created a uni-directional relation. Let's make it bi-directional:

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne} from "typeorm";
import {User} from "./User";

@Entity()
export class Profile {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    gender: string;
    
    @Column()
    photo: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => User, user => user.profile) // specify inverse side as a second parameter
    user: User;
    
}
```

```typescript
import {Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column, OneToOne, JoinColumn} from "typeorm";
import {Profile} from "./Profile";

@Entity()
export class User {
    
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number;
    
    @Column()
    name: string;
    
    @OneToOne(() => Profile, profile => profile.user) // specify inverse side as a second parameter
    @JoinColumn()
    profile: Profile;
    
}
```

We just made our relation bi-directional. Note, inverse relation does not have a `@JoinColumn`.
`@JoinColumn` must only be on one side of the relation -  on the table that will own the foreign key.

Bi-directional relations allow you to join relations from both sides using `QueryBuilder`: 

```typescript
const profiles = await connection
    .getRepository(Profile)
    .createQueryBuilder("profile")
    .leftJoinAndSelect("profile.user", "user")
    .getMany();
```
